
    Rayman - complete walkthrough

    Version 0.42

    By J

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
0. Contents
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To search for a particular section, append references together, e.g. '4aiii.'.

* = incomplete section
** = section not started

0.   Contents

1.   Legal and contact

2.   Introduction

3.   Current content

4.   Gameplay
  a.   Tips
  b.   Items and objects
  c.   Enemies

5.   Bonus Stages(0.07)*
  a.   The Dream Forest
  b.   Band Land*
  c.   Blue Mountains**
  d.   Picture City**
  e.   The Caves of Mr. Skops**

6.   Walkthrough(0.51)*
  a.   The Dream Forest
    i.   Pink Plant Woods
    ii.  Anguish Lagoon
    iii. REVISITED Pink Plant Woods
    iv.  The Swamps of Forgetfulness
    v.   Mosquito's Nest
    vi.  REVISITED Anguish Lagoon
    vii. REVISITED Mosquito's Nest
  b.   Band Land(0.09)*
    i.   Bongo Hills
    ii.  Allegro Presto
    iii. REVISITED Bongo Hills**
  c.   Blue Mountains(0.1)**
  d.   Picture City(0.14)**
  e.   The Caves of Mr. Skops(0.14)**
  f.   Candy Chateau(0.04)**

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1. Legal and contact
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This guide is distributed under a Creative Commons license
(Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0):

http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/

If you come across any significant section of this guide and its use does not
comply with the above terms, please e-mail me.

To contact me to either suggest information or ideas or point out corrections,
use e-mail.  The e-mail address to use is J49137@gmail.com.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2. Introduction
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This document is a walkthrough for the game Rayman, for the Sony PlayStation.
Its aim is to help those that read it to complete the game as easily as
possible, including many of the bonus games and extras, if not all of them.

In writing this guide, I will not cover any matter that is in the game manual.
Also, as a player progresses through the game, new Powers are gained, which are
explained in the game, along with how to use them.  I will not, at those
points, do the same, but I will describe particular strategies of their use
when required, later on.  Also, though they are not exactly vital to completing
the game, I will cover the collection of as many 'Tings' as is practical.

Throughout the guide, although these may be the incorrect names, I call the 6
places, e.g. The Dream Forest and Band Land, 'Worlds'; the places shown on the
map 'Levels'; and the separate parts within them 'Stages'.  I use 'powers' to
describe the number times Rayman can get hurt and, so, the items that replenish
these are named 'Large Power-ups' and 'Small Power-ups appropriately' (don't
mistake these with 'Powers', which are new moves given to Rayman at certain
times by Betilla the Fairy; the difference is the capital letter).  Enemies are
anything that move, are seemingly living and can hurt Rayman, bosses being
those larger ones that have a Stage (or, in some cases, more than one) devoted
to a battle with them.

And there are also some random silly bits.  Naturally.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3. Current content
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At the moment, this guide contains:
- Gameplay information (nothing on enemies yet, though).
- Walkthrough for World 1, including Bonus Stages.
- Walkthrough for some of World 2 and some of its Bonus Stages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4. Gameplay
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

'Gameplay' is the part of the guide that helps to explain other aspects of the
game apart from simply what to do to complete it.  It is a reference to
enemies and how to defeat them (including bosses) and the game's various items
and the best ways to use them (though this is described with relevance to
objective in the walkthrough).  Also, some tips that I have managed to think of
are good-willingly included.

Most, if not all, of this section is included in the walkthrough part of this
guide, but it is here as well, so as to be easier to find and refer to.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4a. Tips
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The following are a variety of tips that I have thought up, which will help in
any part of the game, and that are, for the most part, not explained in the
game or its manual:

1. Be aware that by pressing X for a brief time, Rayman will perform a shorter
jump than if X is pressed for a normal duration.

2. After completing a Level, going back through it a second time will not take
you through Stages or parts of Stages in which a new Power was given to Rayman,
or where a boss was fought.

3. Always go back to check for Power-ups and extra lives, or even Cages, if the
'appearing' sound is heard.

4. Rayman's fist goes further than a usual non-powered up punch if Square is
pressed just as Rayman lands on the ground.

5. The furthest that you can make Rayman jump from a ledge is achieved if X is
pressed after Rayman begins to fall, but is still on the land and can propel
himself off of it with a jump.

6. Bonus Stages can be used (if they contain more than 10 Tings) to infinitely
gain Tings and, so, lives.  However, this can be a very time-consuming process,
especially once it has been take into account that 10 Tings are paid to the
Magician by Rayman to allow entry to the Bonus Stage.

7. To punch a low enemy or object (such as a Berry), punch then duck.  Hold
the punch for a bit if it doesn't work without.

8. When you use the return sign at the start of a Level, all progress in that
Stage remains.  For example, you will keep Cages, Tings and extra lives
collected.  Using one in a Bonus Stage will lose you the 10 Tings you paid for
access, though.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4b. Items and objects
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the most important items (things Rayman collects) and objects (things
Rayman uses) in the game.  Less important ones are either less common, or are
uninteresting and don't do much.

    TING
Tings are those pearl-like objects that litter the Rayman world, and are the
only things of which I am sure of the name.  Collect 100 for another life, or
fewer than that in Bonus Stages.  They make nice sounds if collected in the
right order and at the right speed.

    POWER-UP
Power-ups come in Large and Small varieties, both red with a 'P'.  The smaller,
however, has small, energetic, yellow dots around it as well, with a small
central circle.  These replenish the powers Rayman has that constitute his
life: collect a Large Power-up to refill 5 and create 5 spaces, and a Small one
to refill up to 3 of however many spaces are currently available for powers (3
or 5).

    LIFE STATUE
Resembling Rayman, only miniature, they add one to Rayman's number of lives.
After collection, they never reappear, and can also be found in Bonus Stages,
one in each.

    CAGE
There are 6 Cages per Level in the game's first 5 Worlds, each of which must
be collected for access to World 6.  They each contain 6 Electoons, which are
important...for some reason or other.

    GOLDEN FIST/SUPER FIST
This is either a gold-coloured, floating fist (actually, everything floats in
this game) or a fist with a blue 'S' around it.  If collected, Rayman's punches
are improved, though I'm unsure what each does.  It may be that Super punches
are faster and Golden punches are more powerful; it is also possible to have
both at once.  Golden Fists make Rayman's fist golden, while Super Fists make
it have a magical-seeming trail behind it as he punches.

    POTION
This occurs in certain Stages after receiving the Helicopter Power.  It is a
bottle of pink liquid, presumably potion, that makes Rayman's hair pink when
helicoptering, allowing him to go up by repeatedly pressing X.

    POWER
These are the special moves Rayman gets given, which are permanent and all
essential to complete the game.  In order of collection, they are:
 - Punch        - punch anything (Square).
 - Hang         - hang on ledges' edges (rhyme intentional).
 - Grab         - grab Life statues and Flying Rings.
 - Helicopter   - float in the air by rotating your hair (again, rhyme
                  intentional) (X again in midair).
 - Run          - Why are you even looking here?  (Circle.)

    FLYING RING
Winged, either pink or red, of course with eyes, and floating, Flying Rings are
the purpose of Grab.  Punch to latch onto one and swing left and right.  Pink
rings remain stationary, while red ones descend at a steady rate.

    FAIRY
Fairies are usually found in pairs, and are tiny things with a very odd, lumpy,
triangular appearance.  Touch one to turn small or return to normal size.

    '<-Â¬' SIGN
These are found at the start of each and every Level and Bonus Stage, and serve
as a way of returning to the the map screen (or Magician).  You will keep
anything you collect while in the Level or Bonus Stage.

    '!' SIGN
The end of a Stage.  Touch to win, smile with shiny teeth and say 'Yeah!'.
There are none in boss Stages.

    CHECKPOINT
A Checkpoint consists of the photographer and a picture with a space for your
head.  Line Rayman up in the right spot to have his picture taken; now, if he
should die in this Stage, he will restart here rather than at the beginning.

    BERRY
Found mostly in The Dream Forest, Berries serve as transport, for reach high
places or crossing large bodies of water.  They reappear if off-screen for too
long, and are knocked off their vine with a punch.  Punc-duck to move one you
are on top of.

    CLOUD
There are many types of cloud, and they are mostly found in Band Land.
Stationary clouds, disappearing clouds, bouncy clouds and elevator-like clouds
are the variations on this object, and they help with accessing high or far-off
areas.

    EXPLODING ROCK
Exploding rocks are often come across in Blue Mountains, and explode when
dropped or punched.  This can refer to the smaller variety, which expel
fragments (surprisingly slowly) and in this way are harmful, or the larger
ones, which are harmless and contain items, most often blocking a path.

    BOUNCY BALL
In Picture City, bouncy balls are found either already bouncing or suspended;
punch one to move it and jump on one to bounce up to high places.  They are
very similar to Berries, except some are topped with spikes.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4c. Enemies
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

I don't think I'll attempt this section until I get some enemy names...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5. Bonus Stages
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

These are the best ways that I could find to complete the game's many and very
varied bonus games.  Throughout the guide, they are referenced with a number to
this section.

(Format for numbers is: World#-Level#-Bonus#)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5a. The Dream Forest
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BONUS 1-1-1
10 Tings
25 Seconds

Start off by heading right to the red flower ahead; these fall when jumped on,
carrying Rayman downwards.  Land on the lowest, then up and left twice,
collecting Ting 1 under the third flower.  Then jump left, receiving 3 more
Tings in an arc.  Take the same route up again, but go right from the third
flower (Ting 5), then right and high for Ting 6.  On the third of the highest
row of flowers wait while it drops until you have the Ting (7) just under it.
Jump right to finish with the last 3 Tings.


BONUS 1-1-2
15 Tings
35 Seconds

As Rayman lands, go left for a Ting on the stone hand, then right again.
Collect Tings on the way up, mastering the technique of jumping as you do so.
After crossing the Stage 4 times, jumps get harder to pull off.  Now, rather
than using short hops for greater speed, go as far as you can.  You may have to
drop a bit at the ledges' ends to maximise the length of Rayman's jumps.  The
final Ting is on the ledge at the top left of the Bonus Stage.


BONUS 1-3-1
12 Tings
30 Seconds

There isn't much I can say to help here, except to make it clear that to go up,
you need to punch the Berry and ride it, then punch the next and continue,
collecting the Tings on the way.  The best time to punch to get the timing
right is when you are on the edge, and try to punch at the first edge you come
to.

A much easier, though perhaps slower way, would be to jump onto the next Berry
and then punch it (punch-duck), making your way up like that.  The main way
to make it easier to get onto the already-moving Berries is to punch the one
before in the opposite direction, while the one above is directly above.


BONUS 1-4-1
17 Tings
45 Seconds

Begin holding right, then jump up the flowers quickly.  On the highest just
before the Berry, stay on until the Berry swings across - the timing should
be just right if you start immediately.  Across the other side of the screen,
continue upwards, and the timing for the Berry should be good again as you land
on the last flower.

Back on the right, you can skip the first flower and go straight for the one
with the Ting.  Jump for the next Berry just as it begins to come back to
Rayman's side of the screen, to land on it in the centre of its swing, where
the Ting is.

The route for the flowers above should be careful, so as to have flowers enough
to use and not fall back down.  To make this simpler, I'll draw a diagram with
the flowers as numbers in the order to land on them.  It's a bit small and
strange, I know, but it's the best I can do in 30 seconds:

	[11]
		[10][8]
	[9]			[7]
		[4]	[6]
	[3]			[5]
		[2]
	[1]
		 BERRY

From there, it's simple; just follow the flowers up.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
5b. Band Land
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

BONUS 2-2-1
12 Tings
25 Seconds

Begin by going left, watching out for the return sign.  Jump up onto the
rotating puddings there, collecting the first Ting on the way.  The second is
on the left and a few more up on top of the next puddings.  From there, jump
across to the right, collecting the one in the middle, and then around for 3
more and down to the pudding below.  Get the Ting on the right of this, then
jump left to grab the final 2 in the middle.

I did have 13 Tings in this description, so I removed a random Ting.  Please
e-mail if you find it to be wrong...oops.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6. Walkthrough
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This is the main part of the guide: the actual walkthrough.  The following will
be a detailed guide as to how to complete the game, to the very end.  It is
important to collect every single Cage, but not all Tings, as Cages are needed
in order for the game to be finished.  At the end of each Stage, I have written
the number of Cages you should have by that point as a reference.

After watching the introduction cut-scene, begin your game, using the save
method of your preference.  The map will be the first thing you see; select
'Pink Plant Woods' to start Rayman's quest.  Prepare for it to the soothing
sound of...jungle drums...

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6a. The Dream Forest
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Dream Forest is, as the name suggests, located within a forest, presumably
The Dream one.  It is a grassy, earthy, watery area, with plenty of atmosphere
and moody mists and rain.

It features only basic enemies, generally rangers, small rangers, viscious
plants and mallet-shooters, and the small black ball-shaped things - all of
which I can't name through lack of instruction manual - littered in their many
forms everywhere, as in all Worlds (if anyone knows the actual names for any
enemies in the game, please contact and inform me on the E-mail address in the
'Use of this FAQ' section (8.) below).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6ai. Pink Plant Woods
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE ONE

When you begin, you will be able to see several shiny, pearl-like objects
floating in mid-air around the Stage; I call these Tings, because of the
characteristic sound made when they are collected.  They actually make nice
(intended) tunes when several are collected in swift succession.  This first
Stage is a place in which to learn how to move Rayman around, and jump, and
collect Tings.

Jump onto the hand of the statue (using X) to collect the first of these
Tings and, from there, jump high to the right for two more.  (The large red and
white 'P' is a Large Power-up, which increases the number of powers Rayman has
to 5, but this one cannot be collected right now.)  As you go forwards (to the
right), jump onto the red flower to get to the other side of the water: RAYMAN
CANNOT SURVIVE IN WATER (i.e. he dies), though the stepping stones can be
very misleading.

Use this Stage also as a chance to learn what can be interacted with and what
makes up part of the background, to help later on.

Across the water, jump onto the ledge, then the vine coming down from above:
this can be climbed with the D-Pad.  Once higher than the bottom of the other
vine further left, jump across to it, then continue to the floating island
above.  There, a Rayman statue can be found (gives Rayman an extra life).
Proceed to jump across to the Large Power-up from earlier, before making your
way back to the vine and passing it.  Jump across the ponds, and ascend using
the floating ledges and stone hand, to reach the '!' sign: the end of the
Stage.  Use these ledges that are close together to practise short hops by
briefly pressing X; this will be useful later on in the game, when more speed
may be required at times.

Watch Rayman's teeth sparkle, before he heads onwards.

STAGE TWO

Begin by jumping on the red flower to the left, and then jumping off it to the
vine on the right; do this when the flower is more than half of the way down,
to be able to make it.  Climb the vine and jump to the left but then back again
for an extra life.  Collect the Tings around the vine on the left (climb right
to the very top of the first one before jumping to get there), then get onto
the ledge surmounted with a top hat - which is revealed to be a Magician.  By
paying him the 10 Tings, in this Stage and many others, you can try the Bonus
Stage, for a life as a reward (see the 'Bonus Stages' section (5.) above for
help with this; search 'BONUS 1-1-1').

The sound played after jumping over the water below, at the start, is one that
occurs whenever something appears; in this case it is an enemy only that has
magically been produced behind, so continue to the right, ending up under the
large floating ledge, whose top cannot be reached yet.  After a small island
and a ramp, use the vine to get across with 3 Tings, avoiding the enemy below
with big jaws and sharp teeth.  Climb the purple and yellow (if wrong, it's
due to colour-blindness) thing to get the Large Power-up, then go down to the
ledge below (ones above are out of reach for now).  Continue using jumps until
you see a photographer (why a photographer?); stand in line with the head slot
on the large picture to get Rayman's photo taken: this acts as a checkpoint, if
you should die.

Climb the vine above for 4 Tings, then head right once more, and onto the pink
flower (will not fall).  You cannot attack enemies now, so avoid the
ranger-type person and the piranhas between the vines ahead.  Again, ignore the
Berry on the end of the vine and Cage below the ledge, and end the Stage to see
Rayman's sparkly white teeth.  

STAGE THREE

On this next Stage, you will receive Rayman's first new Power (not power) from
Betilla the Fairy; walk up to her to learn how to punch.  Now you can defeat
enemies, use Berries and, by that, cross large bodies of water.  Experiment
with punching and holding Square to wind Rayman's fist up, increasing the
power.

After that, jump up and punch the berry.  Get on top of it, then jump to get
higher, before finally reaching the end and '!' sign.

STAGE FOUR

On the next (fourth) Stage, go forwards and use the the Berry to get high
enough to jump onto the stone hand, for an extra life.  Jump on the berry
several times to get higher.  Next, below again, you can break open your first
Cage by punching it twice, or once with more power.  The symbol shown on the
screen then represents the Cage: there are 6 on every Level but the last.

After that, punch the berry ahead repeatedly until it lands in the water.  Land
on it and face left to move it to the Golden Fist, which strengthens your
punch.  If done right, the berry can alternatively go over the water and
disable the enemy there (i.e. it becomes his head), so you can jump on that
new head for the high-up Super Fist.

Now, with punch, you can see Rayman's 3 hands.  Wind up your fist a lot and,
once released, press Circle to make Rayman make a face.  Not only will 3 hands
be shown on the screen (perhaps his fist is not actually part of him), but he
will at his own fist(!).  Anyway, go right, defeating the two short ranger-type
people, which duck if they see you, by punching when landing, thereby punching
further.  To collect the Golden Fist on your third jump, walk almost off the
platform before leaving the ground.

Climb the vine above, then jump left for the extra life there.  Punch the Cage
on the lower ledge to the right to open it before going onwards, to the sloping
ledge.  At its end, an enemy appears behind (left), who shoots mallets (which,
believe it or not, can hurt Rayman).  You cannot kill this type of enemy when
his gun is pointing forwards, ready to shoot.  Jump off the ledge, and enemies
will appear all around.  Drop down to the bottom, killing all enemies on the
way, then jump up again.  Go onto the right ledge, rid it of enemies, then take
the Berry down and use it to cross the  water to the left for another life.
Return and do the same, only across the water on the right, for yet another
life (all of these will probably be needed later on) and a Large Power-up.
Across that water, jump onto the ledge before crossing it to the second small
floating ledge.

Jump and punch the Berry to the left and above next, following it quickly
before it goes too far away and disappears.  Punch it into the water below,
then use your vehicle to traverse the pond to find the Magician again (= Bonus
Game = extra life)(search 'BONUS 1-1-2' for a solution).  After that, turn
left, punch the Berry and jump onto it quickly, before the Magician has time to
enrol Rayman in a second go at the Bonus Stage you have just (hopefully) won.

Return to the vine-supporting ledge from which you punched the Berry, then head
up and right, and across to the life; be ready to turn and fight your way out.
Finally, drop down to where the mallet-shooting creature is placed.  Duck under
his attacks while getting up the slope, then punch (once if you still have the
Golden Fist(s)) before his gun is put up to fire.  Break open the Cage, then
end, completing the Level with the sight of Rayman's sparkly smile and the
current maximum 3 Cages out of the 6 hidden in the Level.

3/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6aii. Anguish Lagoon
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE ONE

Go to the right until Rayman reaches a junior-sized ranger-topped ledge,
whereupon you should jump onto it and rid it of its occupant (best done when he
is facing away because such enemies can duck).  Punch the Berry suspended there
to start it swinging and alight it, from there leaving to the right.  Here, hop
onto the second (already) swinging Berry to land on the first of the two
red-edged flowers.

However, seeing the ever-helpful Tings below, allow it to carry you down
through the Tings to a mallet-shooting enemy below, complete with Cage and
Rayman statue.  Remember to duck, and attack only when the gun is not aimed at
Rayman; I shouldn't have to include further information on the Cage and life
mentioned...  Use the Berry above to cross the body of water (deceivingly
topped with stones), back to the red flowers, this time reaching the upper
grassy ledge.  On seeing the Cage leftwards, open it - but be aware of the
'appearing' sound indicating the appearance of a mallet-pencil...er...thing.
Continue in the same direction across the two gaps, defeat the source of the
previously mentioned missile and unlock the Cage.  For a quicker kill, jump
when punching this enemy.

The rest of this first Stage should be easy by now, so continue to the end.

STAGE TWO

Here, you will find the game's first boss, the Mosquito.

After collecting the Large Power-up on the right, be careful to fall off the
ledge in time to land on the Berry below, so as to be able to collect the Tings
and Super Fist as well.  Now drop down to the battle arena and prepare
for...battle.  (To collect more Tings, drop from the centre of the screen.)

This boss is really very simple to get rid of - and so it should be, being the
first in the game.  The battle consists of two sections, the first of these
being a simple attack by the boss.  When its proboscis (snout[?]) straightens,
it can hurt you, and you it; just jump to the right height and punch - what
could be easier?  To get out of tight situations between the pink mosquito and
the wall (which you should really be trying to avoid), crawl underneath its
lunge of an attack with R1.

The second Stage of the battle begins after the boss has taken two hits (I
think): the Mosquito will have its snout protrude from one side of the screen,
at head- or ground-height.  Be prepared to jump over it, preferably traveling
in the direction of the boss's source to make the jump less difficult, though
ducking is often the best option with the higher-up attempts at stabbing
Rayman.

From now on (after a few 'zooms'), the Mosquito will periodically vary between
the two methods of attack: simply dodge and punch to gain victory.  When one
hit away from a win for Rayman, the enemy will be able to dodge some punches,
so be more careful then; after 5 blows to the head (well, he does seem to be
one big head), the pink Mosquito will have lost the battle, and Rayman will
dance.  Yay.

But what's this?...Rayman is MAKING FRIENDS with his enemy?  Oh well.

STAGE THREE

The third Stage begins with a constantly moving screen and Rayman on his
newfound friend's back.  Watch out for a speed increase or two later, though.
At the start, follow the Tings upwards for a Golden Fist, then down and up once
more for a Super Fist.  Then, be careful of the yellow/golden stars - they're
spiky.  The Large Power-up under the stars below can only be collected if you
are close to the far right edge of the screen as it comes into view.

After you pass the second set of stars, 5 above 3, fly down to the bottom of
the screen (not as low as possible though, as you will then get stuck between
the screen's left edge and the ledge) to punch a Cage.  This is an easy one
to accidentally but knowingly miss, and is the Level's fourth so far.  After
more stars, 3 helicoptering ball-things pave the way to get punched; next, take
the upper route through the ledges with the more scary, massive-jawed spheres:
it's easier to pass through the top unscathed.

After that, stay left, as mallets in pencils will attack at varying heights -
here, the Mosquito speeds up.  Another Super Fist is here, before you must
defeat the mallets' source - how he aimed so high I'll never know - and find a
Small Power-up on the same ledge.

Now, not without a rather odd warning, the speed will really increase. Get the
Tings, then more, then more; dodge the stars, more speed, more Tings,
 - but no hazards.  The end.  I really feel that last section could have been
prolonged.

STAGE FOUR

Now, another Power.  Listen to Betilla (the fairy), and HANG on the ledge with
Tings, jump up and end the Stage.  If you think about it, there are now only
two Stages in this Level.

4/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6aiii. REVISITED Pink Plant Woods
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now that you have the Powers Punch and Hang, all of the Cages in this first
Level of the game are accessible.  To get Cages 4, 5 and 6, first make it to
the second Stage.

STAGE ONE - use 6ai.

STAGE TWO

Go right, across 3 small areas of water, before jumping up onto the higher
ledge by hanging onto its edge.  When two small ranger-type guys appear, it is
quickest to jump away and continue right on the instant they materialise.  Jump
onto the second platform - here, avoid flying mallets and punch the small,
round blue things.  It isn't difficult to pass by the gunman, so do so, and
release the Electoons from their Cage on the next floating wad of mud and
grass.

Across another small platform, the pink (never-falling) flower and another
midget-sized sphere-thing, collect the 6th and final Cage.  Next, jump across
to the vine, from which everything to finish the Level is covered in the first
walkthrough through it (section 6ai.).

STAGE 3 - non-existent.

STAGE 4 - use 6ai.

6/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6aiv. The Swamps of Forgetfulness
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(You'll notice that you now have two further Level choices.  Go left.)

STAGE ONE

This Stage is different to any you've so far had to complete, in that Rayman
must go up, and there is a time limit of sorts.  When you begin, you'll see
'Tarayzan' behind a plant on the left; jump and punch his clothes down for him
to receive a seed.  Now, for this Stage only, you can plant seeds with Circle,
which grow into plants, allowing you to reach higher places.  The deadly water
will begin to rise...

Much of this Stage is fairly straightforward; there is no need to go very fast,
because the screen moves upwards at a set speed.  Begin by planting a seed on
the right, near the ledge above, then jump to get up onto it.  Repeat to go
left, across the flower, and then simply continue upwards, using the Berries
to cross the screen.

After the first Berry, there is a hammer-shooter and some Tings on the ledge
above, then two easy-to-reach Cages.  A few flower, Berries and one more enemy
further up, you'll reach the top ledge: as you near the '!' sign, be ready to
turn back for an extra life that appears, if there is time.  There should be
lots of time though.

STAGE TWO

The Super Fist will help ahead, where you must punch the Berries above to land
on the rangers' heads in order to jump across.  Take the Berry on the next
island under the ledge, across the water, to get a Large Power-up and be able
to kill the ball-men more easily.  Next, use the Berry there to go under the
ledge to the right; a Cage will appear on the ledge in front.

On the next pink-laced flower below the swining Berry, you need to punch the
high Berry off to the right and then ride it across the water to a Cage, the
Level's 4th.  As is obvious, return to the swinging Berry and use it to swing
up to the Stage's end.

STAGE THREE

Here, begin by punching the Berry, then using it to climb up the vine above it.
At the top, you'll find some Tings, and more leading back down.  Take the fall
- and don't worry, a drop cannot hurt Rayman - to find a Cage at the beginning
again.  Next, use the Berry again, this time heading right and down the hill.
Your journey down will get quite fast, so watch carefully for this: near the
bottom is a flower that you can jump to, which leads to a Magician.  Naturally,
complete the Bonus Stage for a life (search 'BONUS 1-3-1'), and then follow the
Ting far away (they never lie) to land on a red-edged flower that appears.  The
only thing you'll miss by going this way is about 10 Tings and a lot of 
hammer/pencil/broom-dodging.

Across the flowers and Berry is a ledge with the 6th Cage on it.  Climb the
vine for 11 Tings if you feel it's worth the 20 seconds of your life it will
take.  Jump off the right edge, following the Tings and Power-up, to land on
the end sign.  Note the source of the mallets to the left.

And that's it; with 6 out of 6 Cages collected, The Swamps of Forgetfulness
gets completed the first time through.

6/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6av. Mosquito's Nest
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE ONE

Rayman starts under a multiple Ting-topped giant mushroom-tree.  Interesting...
Use the other mushroom-branches to the left to get up the top and to the Tings,
to hear the sound of an appearing Cage back down below.  It goes without saying
that you should, as always, violently release its Electoons from their prison
before continuing.

The stars further on are new (I think...to be honest, I can't remember, and
don't think I need to).  Use the Berry to cross the water and jump over them,
timing them right by turning the Berry left and then right again appropriately.
There are more on the next ledge, along with a few midget-sized enemies and a
Large Power-up on top of the second star's purchase.  Along the water, there is
no need to do anything to avoid the yellow stars, and you should dodge the fish
in much the same way as the red stars, except without the jumping over.

Carry on underneath the photographer to get the next Cage.  After returning to
the checkpoint and going right again, punch the Berry down.  You could grab
the vine and meet the Magician up there now, but you need another Power for the
Cage, so I'll mention that in the revisitation of this Level.  Instead, get on
the Berry in the water and use it to get across the water to the small ledge
with a ball-enemy on top.  It is easiest to punch this when still on the Berry,
so do so, and jump up onto the next ledge when the small enemies are not near
and kill the crazy mallet-launcher.

Carrying on to the right, use the Berry to get safely down the enemy-covered
slope, at whose end is another ledge, with more madly criss-crossing tiny
things.  These are fairly easy to pass (use small, delicate jumps), after which
you will meet a new creature, though easy to get past.  Note that, from my
experience, this thing is undefeatable, only passable; to do this, jump and
punch its mouth, to release a ranger; dispose of him to be able to simply walk
past what is now temporarily a pile of yellow stuff on the floor.

This next red flower goes up, so stay on it to get up to the last ledge of the
Stage.  Finish, grabbing the Small Power-up beyond the sign if you require it.

STAGE TWO

First of all, jump left and then left again to make a Cage appear further on;
return and open this, the third so far.  Across the water, it makes sense to
defeat the ranger before jumping on his floating island, though it isn't hard
to rid it of him mid-jump.  Make the jump between the next two flowers as soon
as you see the second, collecting the Golden Fist at the same time, as with the
next leap between the next two.  For the lower one, leap as the flower you are
on turns back left for a safe landing.

Make your way to the top ledge past the red stars, before proceeding to cross
the water by way of the flowers that fall.  The timing to dodge both stars and
enemy over the hills after that is not hard.  Continue to the Cage below the
checkpoint, both of which you should use, and then, perhaps collecting the
Large Power-up when the swinging Berry is left-most (that is, if you feel
Rayman deserves it), swing across to the flowers and stars.  Remember to duck
before obliteration by red spikiness, and this will be easy too.

Further jumps need no guide, but don't miss the Cage on the lower ledge before
the mallet-gun wielder.  For this (and I would advise removing the
aforementioned enemy first), punch the Berry that is hanging over the '!' sign
back to the water.

STAGE THREE

This Stage presents another race against time, with the screen moving at a
predermined, if not constant, speed.  Look back to see the Mosquito again, who
seems to hate you again...strange relationship.  Naturally, he's carrying a
spiky blue thing the size of the screen, so you should head right as normal.

The hardest part about the first, slower section is that when you are over
water, you might have to wait for the boss to catch up, which is often not an
option when on a falling flower.  So, when you see a falling flower ahead, slow
down a little beforehand.  Anyway, you should jump up to and across the 3
medium-sized ledges to a slope.  Wait a while to go down it, because you must
reach its end before the stars suspended above fall down - and they are quite
spiky.

Here, jump up onto the statue's hand to take the easier, upper route, as the
Mosquito begins to occupy more of the screen, restricting your view ahead.
And no, you are not allowed to hurt him just yet, however much you may want to.
He will receed again but speed up as you cross ledges with blue ball-men on, to
a speed that is the same as Rayman's maximum - this is not the time to make a
mistake.

Time jumps across the ledges to try not to waste time hanging, and time
button-presses across the vines to jump onwards again immediately.  Luckily,
there is a point past which your follower cannot proceed, so finish the Stage.

STAGE FOUR

This Stage is short and fairly relaxed compared to those before and after, with
a fair amount of collectibles.  It starts off with you and a mini-ranger, which
deserves to be punched, so punch it.  Go past, across the flowers, making sure
to dodge the fish, collecting the Tings on the way.  Jump over the star and off
the floating island to the Berry below as they both swing to the left, then
carry on across the tiny ledges and flowers to land again.

Now, simply follow the Tings on up the hill, past the lift that remains where
it is, and to the sign that signifies the Stage's end.

STAGE FIVE

Rayman now enters what seems to be what the Level's name refers to as the
'Mosquito's nest'.  The Mosquito, now red and initially seemingly in need of
medical assitance, wastes no time in initiating battle.  The first attack phase
is much like it was in your first encounter, two Levels back, with him trying
to attack with his proboscis (stinger[?]), and Rayman being able to hurt the
boss as he comes in to attack.

After just two blows to the head, though, he will adopt a new strategy -
dropping stars from the sky.  These are drop as they pass over Rayman and
continue straight down, so walk under the Mosquito and past to avoid them.  He
will drop two of these, then attack.  After this, he decides to drop larger,
red spiky things, which always fall at the same place and bounce in the same
way, making them fairly predictable - walk underneath as they bounce.

Four of these will bound across the screen before the boss resorts to his old
trick of zooming across at (what appears to be literally) breakneck speed.
Duck or jump.  Combinations of these 4 types of attack and a 5th ensue -
he also goes past with massive blue star, which can be avoided by crawling.
There are frequent intervals to punch him, all of them easy to take advantage
of.

Follow this, and you should have Rayman dancing in no time.  This time, he does
not make the mistake of teaming up with the Mosquito again.  All that follows
is a test of your staying power; if I counted right, 12 hits makes a defeat
this time around.

STAGE SIX

Betilla the Fairy is on hand to give aid once again, with a new Power: the
ability to grab things.  This includes hauling in extra life statues from long
distances with your fist, and swinging using pink flying rings.  The latter is
the example used in this Stage to reach its end, and the Level's end.

5/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6avi. REVISITED Anguish Lagoon
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This time around, now with Grab, it is possible to get the last two Cages, both
of which are on Stage 1.  This means that there is no need to complete the rest
of the Level (only one other Stage, but still...), as you can use the return
sign at the start.

STAGE ONE

Begin by going right and up onto the top ledge using the two Berries.  From
there, walk left and off the edge of the floating island, whereupon Rayman
should land on another below.  Jump left to get to the ledge under the Berry,
punching the Berry as you bridge the gap.  from there, you can jump from the
Berry and punch the flying ring to the left to grab it, and then swing across
to the Cage.

By walking off onto the Ting-topped plant below, you will make the last Cage
appear just below.  Open that, and then exit the Level via the return sign at
its beginning (just to the left).

6/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6avi. REVISITED Mosquito's Nest
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE ONE

Continue through the Stage (using 6av. if required) until you reach the
photographer.  Here, punch the Berry and jump on it straight away; it should
bounce off to the right, where you need to grab the vine above.  Climb the vine
and go left on the ledge above, past numerous rangers, fish, gaps in the floor
and another potato-headed mallet-shooting-type-thing.

You'll meet the Magician again; pay the 10 Tings if you want to earn a life
(search 'BONUS 1-4-1' for a guide).  After that comes the part where Grab is
needed: jump of the edge of the ledge to the left and punch the flying ring
that appears to swing across to the next; let go and repeat to reach the ledge
beyond.  At the leftmost edge of this area is the last Cage of World 1, a Large
Power-up and a Super Fist.  I'll leave you to decide which to deal with
first...

Now, retrace your steps along the top of the Level and then to the end, using
section 6av if you need to.

STAGE TWO - use 6av.

STAGE THREE - non-existent.

STAGE FOUR - use 6av.
At the end of this, you can now get the Rayman statue (extra life).  Right
before the '!' sign, turn left and punch it (wind up for a while) to pull it
towards you and collect it.

STAGES FIVE-SIX - non-existent.

6/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6b. Band Land
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You'll find a number of new enemies here, a few harder than before, and also
the first slippery platforms.  The theme is music, which is a welcome deviation
from the normal water/fire/ice.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6bi. Bongo Hills
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE ONE

Rayman will begin on what I referred to just above as a slippery platorm -
though I can't tell what it actually is.  Collect the Large Power-up just below
if you  need it, then head off to the right.  Fall down onto the lower drum
platform (there'll be a lot of these) and crawl quickly to the right.  Jumping
up, there is the first of the bouncy hands/clouds (I think they're supposed to
be clouds) that will be in the game from now on; for maximum height, jump as
the cloud reaches its original position again.  An elevator cloud appears to
take you over the recorder, and you'll see a bird-drum mutation below - jump
on this, as it does not harm Rayman, instead helping him jump higher.

Bounce off to the left and then off the edge of the music strip-type platform.
Walk all the way to the right and then run back down left, ducking as you reach
the drum.  After coming out of the other side, jump as far to the left as you
can, still with the momentum from before, and a number of clouds appear.  Use
the top one (more appear if you jump left) to make a Cage appear, so make your
way back to the Level's start (you may have to crawl back under the massive
drum and perform another run-up).

Next, return to the bird-drum-creature and go right, jumping up onto the cloud
with a darker blob in the middle (disappears) and up for a Small Power-up if
you need it.  To the right, hands wielding huge drum-beaters are beating on the
drum platform; simply time walking underneath right to pass.  The third is near
an electric bolt-firing set of eyes, which belong to the recorder.

If you are low on life, jump to make a disappearing cloud appear, then continue
up to the recorder above and to the right.  You can collect the Large Power-up
and jump over without having to stand on it, and reach the other side.

Continue along the path; for another Small Power-up and a few Tings, drop down
through the gap between platforms before the second bird-drum and walk to the
recorder, then punch the creatures on the other side, where the Power-up is.
Use the (stable) clouds that appear to climb back up.  The second bird-drum
allows you to get up onto the moving clouds above it - and take note that the
electric-blue spiky balls do indeed hurt.  Over and right, jump down the gap
(follow the Ting) to find a Rayman statue, reached by a moving cloud.  Back up
on the platform is the finish sign.

STAGE TWO

Walk forwards (right) until you have heard 3 appearing noises.  Walk back,
avoiding the enemies, for an extra life.  Use the path below the drum to crawl
right, and jump up under the green shaker with eyes (these fall a small
distance with Rayman on them).  The green, winged bug further right is a new,
fairly difficult-to-dispose-of enemy, that can duck, headbutt and, later on,
fly and kick; punch a few times (and then quickly duck if it ducks) to defeat
it.

The small drum will fall as Rayman steps on it, so jump up quickly.  The bugs
here are easily avoided: jump over the right one and off the edge of the drum.
Take the falling cloud down and jump off left for Tings and a Super Fist, then
use the other cloud to clouds to continue.  Right and up, walk off the platform
and onto the shaker, then simply continue to walk right to another cloud.  This
leads to more clouds; continue down and left to more sets of 3 drums,
disappearing clouds, and then some tall, ball-enemy-topped drum platforms.

At the top of these, use the cloud to go left and jump over the two music
notes: this can be hard, so time it carefully to avoid a musically spiky death.
If you jump over the '!' sign, another cloud appears that you can use to reach
the three platforms above and their items.  When this cloud reappears, take it
to the Cage a long way to the right that you might have seen earlier, and then
make your way back to the Stage's end.

STAGE THREE

The green shaker you see here that seems to watch you mysteriously is actually
rocket-powered.  Jump on it to activate upward motion.  Controlling this ascent
is simple: move left or right (but not too far) for directional control;
unfortunately, there are no brakes...

Go left, right, left, right to find this Stage's checkpoint photographer, to
the right of which a cloud awaits to bounce Rayman up to another rocket.  But
don't use this just yet -  see the cloud below?  That's an indication that
something important is below.  Fall through the gap and down onto what I can
only describe as strangely connected, rotating puddings.  I'm sure they're
meant to be some sort of instrument, though.  Anyway, down here are a Cage and
Large Power-up; collect the Cage or both and jump back up to the second
rocket-shaker (the cloud will reappear if encouraged by some jumping where it
should be).

Where you see many suspended, tall, thin drums, some with eyes, work your way
left, but not all the way to the wall.  There are a number of items around here
to collect if you really feel the need, but they are quite unimportant.  If you
do fall, there is another rocket to the far left.

Higher up, the second photographer is just as willing to take your picture.  Up
the disappearing clouds, you will see a Small Power-up and Rayman statue
protected by another green bug.  This has better reactions, so don't try to
pass it; instead, you'll have to punch when it lands on the ground, and punch
then duck if it is crouching itself.  Many short, quick punches work better
than a wound-up one, because of this one's dodging abilities.

After the fight, the third and final flying shaker will carry you on and up,
past the helicopter-powered blue balls to the end of this Stage.

STAGE FOUR

At the start of this Stage, just walk at full speed to avoid the lighting
bolts, jumping at the right times.  Past the Large Power-up, the easiest way
to approach the drum with the small enemy on is to either dodge the enemy or
hang on its edge and, from there, jump up and punch it in (hopefully) one fluid
motion.  The latter, however, won't work for the next drum because of the
(deadly) musical note before it.

The Flying Ring you may spot here can be reached, but you will need another
Power to use it to reach the Cage further on, which is the only one that
remains on this playthrough of Bongo Hills.  Continue on down the round
platforms until you reach the edge with a Small Power-up on it - grab this and
walk off the edge for many Tings, a Super Fist and a Large Power-up.

The cloud will help bounce Rayman up to the recorders' tops, from where you can
go right for some Tings if you haven't already collected them from above.
Otherwise, walk left this time.  To avoid the electric bolts past the
recorders, simply walk at full speed, neither ducking nor jumping.  Walk right
to the drum's edge to make the enemy on the next drum jump up so it can be
easily punched, and then continue, repeating this process for the next enemy.

Climb up the drums, dodging all the electricity, until you reach the heighest
and begin to descend; here, jump around a bit until the cloud appears, which
is in a position to allow Rayman to get higher, onto the drum on the left.  Up
here, dispose of the enemy and walk right to the end for an extra life and a
means of escape (the upper cloud).  Left is the way to the end, back down the
lower route.

STAGE FIVE

More eerily rotating puddings are ahead, this time to be ridden on.  Jump on
and ride down, around all the bright blue, spiky balls with eyes (everything
has eyes in this game) and across.  Punch or dodge the flying enemies, then
rotate on and up to come to a rest.

Here, you will see two VERY strange fairies (which are on Rayman's side, no
matter their appearance) and the photographer.  It may not sound best, but take
the fairy on the left, across the gaping gap; only use the checkpoint if you
have complete confidence in yourself that you will not die on this next
venture (or you will have to repeat the Level for a Cage).  So jump left just
as the pudding you are on is closest the fairy; as you reach the land, Rayman
will become miniaturised, accompanied by a new sound.

In this state, continue left (at least those small enemies are easier to punch
now), only taking the gap between platforms if you are low on life (it's a long
way to go for a Small Power-up).  Make your way up the 4 small platforms and
then left, jumping down onto that initial set of puddings again (I think they
may be maracas).  As this ride reaches the bottom, jump left, onto the platform
below.  Ignoring the first cloud, continue to the second and ride it past the
Cage (punch it, of course) and back round to the start of the Stage.  Return
to the checkpoint you saw earlier, this time as tiny Rayman, and return to
normal size using the gargoyle-type-fairy there.

Another set of puddings will accompany you to the Stage's '!' sign here, but
jump over this and, seeing the cloud, jump off to the right.  A short journey
left will reveal a Cage, after which you can return to the end using another
cloud that appears when jumping just back out from under the drum.

STAGE SIX

This final Stage introduces a new, very scary enemy that cannot be defeated.
Avoid this red thing by way of the clouds around it, then jump down onto the
cloud to the right.  Past the obstacles (take care if you need the Golden
Fist), jump across the two clouds (these appear and disappear together) and
then back to the leftmost cloud of the two that appear.  Jump off this to the
left for Tings and another life before going all the way right to the
vertically-moving cloud.

Only collect the Large Power-up if you have less than full, because it causes
the drums to gains eyes (and, naturally, the power to fire bolts of
electricity).  Duck on the cloud below to pass the red robot enemy, then jump
left.  Using the disappearing cloud below, jump up onto the other clouds if you
want a few Tings, then jump to the fairy.  Your smallness allows you to collect
the Tings and Large Power-up down the gap in the platform just left and return
to normal size.

Further left, under the recorder (this one with friendly (non-electrical)
eyes), up via the cloud and then left past the Small Power-up, you will find
the end of the Level.

5/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6bii. Allegro Presto
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

STAGE ONE

Allegro Presto starts with what may be the game's fastest-paced Stage.  Be
prepared.  Begin by following the arrow of Tings to the right (no need to jump
at the gap) and then keep going.  If you jump just as you reach the second gap,
you can just about collect every Ting in the air, and then duck just in time to
avoid the musical note.  Continue in this way to the end, turn back, duck and
jump a few times and then notice the platform just above, to the left, as you
reach the far left.  Jump up there and then right for a Cage.

If you ever want to stop moving on this slippery stuff, the easiest way is to
jump and then land without moving left or right.  On this Stage, if you slow
down enough that you can't get under obstacles by ducking, crawl or go back and
take a run-up.

Return to the lower ledge and then walk right, ducking under the sets of
multi-coloured musical notes with mean eyes.  When you see the Cage below,
don't stop - you need the momentum for a Cage just past, which is high up.
You'll see this ledge: the height is hard to make, but with an adequate run-up,
jump just as Rayman ends the ramp where the Ting-arrow is.  Try again if you
fail.  Then, return for the Cage you saw just before, and then continue once
more (Be careful not to go too quickly as you head left again just below the
high-up Cage.)  There should be no trouble in reaching the '!' sign from here.

STAGE TWO

The first part of this Stage introduces a new enemy - trumpets that blow (or,
later, suck) Rayman with a lot of force.  Walk right until you hear the
appearing sound, then return left to be blown back right.  As you get blown
left again by the second trumpet, jump to get up onto the ledge and then again
to land on the higher ledge on the left.  Continue in this fashion to reach
the top (requires patience; timing is the key), after which there is a big jump
to land near the checkpoint photographer.

Further right, jump up the small white ledges; as you hear a trumpet's blowing
sound, jump, to be blown left, up to an extra life.  The Tings will take
Rayman back down to the photographer, from where you should jump over the
recorder and wait for the trumpet below to suck.  Duck to be pulled underneath
this enemy and to another, who sends Rayman flying back across the screen, to
yet another.

This time, prepare to jump and punch the Cage up right.  This is possible to
pull off if you miss this first time, but more difficult; coming from the left,
walk down the small slope just enough to gain enough speed but not to lost too
much height.

Once this has been accomplished, return left to be sucked to the right and up a
slope, then land through a '?' of Tings and land between 2 trumpets.  Punch the
right one before either gets a chance to make a move, and then move in that
direction, over the Recorder and down the Ting-chute.  Disappearing clouds
are there if you somehow manage to miss the ledge.  Left for the end.

STAGE THREE

As you begin here, notice that the large drum has eyes (= electric bolt-firing
capability).  Jump onto the first small drum (beware: these fall) and then
back to make another Cage appear, along with a few disappearing clouds.  These
lead up to a drum-beating (actually, it beats on the tops of recorders),
(friendly-)eyed recorder before a Small Power-up, extra life and set of
rotating puddings.  (Please tell me what they are; I can't go on calling them
'puddings' forever.)

Rayman then lands on a ledge just past the drums that you could have crossed at
the start of the Stage.  Jump up and to the right, onto a medium-sized ledge
with a dip, of which there are many more further on.  Continue across these.
Bear in mind that there is Large Power-up (right edge) and Super Fist (left
edge) below if needed.  Take the risk if you feel the need.

A wiggly ledge and an upward slope later, you will find a downward fall (well,
it couldn't be an upward fall) of Tings, a Small Power-up and the photographer.
Yes, I died trying to get in position to have Rayman's photo taken, so don't
make the same mistake.  Continuing through the Stage, don't go too fast over
the platforms here, because you'll need to return for 3 pudding-rotaters when
they appear.  Make your way up these (these ones go in and out as well as round
and round) to find another one of those grotesque fairies.  Touching this thing
will make Rayman small enough to pass through the small passage below the eyed
drum, where you can find another fairy and a Cage.

After dropping back down, continue on your way, to the right.  The small
platforms here are hard to navigate safely: I suggest trying to hang on their
edges rather than landing on top of each, so as to avoid the slipperiness, so
you won't lose control.  To avoid the enemies on the ledges further on, jump
across while they are helicoptering along on their never-ending rotation below.
There is a Large Power-up below as you leave the recorder for the first of
these ledges, but there's no way back up, as far as I know (= death).

At the end of this, go down the sloped white bars, right, left and right; at
the end of the third, jumping far will be safe, because 2 disappearing hands
will catch you underneath the drum.  Past the drum, another of those winged
drums appears behind you as you reach the second of the tiny platforms, so
return, if you want to meet the Magician again (bounce up to and cross the
disappearing clouds).  (For the solution, search 'BONUS 2-2-1'.)

Cross the ledges past the winged drum in the same way as the earlier ones, and
you'll see a strange, red-robed, floating creature (with a pointed head and odd
hairstyle, of course) holding a number of blue orbs, mysteriously linked.  He
rearranges them every few seconds so that there is a larger or small platform
for you (but you can't fall off if you're already on (unless you walk off)).
Jump across and up the clouds that appear; from the ledge, go left for another
cloud, which helps you to the '!' sign.  If the sign doesn't appear, go to the
far edge of the last cloud, so that the higher ledge is off-screen.

STAGE FOUR

As soon as you start this Stage, the small purple musical note will come
towards Rayman; these are indestructible, so jump over.  Continue in the same
direction at your own pace, avoiding these new enemies.  Where one is receeding
up a slope, you must wait until it reaches the level part of the platform to
have enough speed to overtake it without getting hurt.  Duck under the groups
of angry-looking musical notes, still going right.

At this section, you need to pick up speed, ducking in time so Rayman doesn't
slow down, and then jump as you reach the drum at the end.  If done right,
Rayman will go high enough to hang on the edge of this; go over it, crawl under
the next drum and jump on the solid, bouncy clouds to continue.  If you didn't
make it over here, don't worry: it's just a shortcut.  Go left to the left end
of the Stage and then right again, past the photographer (jump to stabilise
enough to get your picture taken); it's all quite simple, just a lot of walking
and ducking.

Further on, there are many more of the purple musical notes on multiple paths.
It really doesn't matter which of these you take, seeing as they all lead to
the same place.  Just go wherever there are fewer enemies.  At the end, you
come across a final two drums and a recorder, their tops level, with another
of those enemies gliding along the path.  Ignore the giant saxophone with eyes
for now, waiting until he leaves to finish the Stage.

STAGE FIVE

Here, your friend Betilla will give you the HELICOPTER Power.  Now you can
imitate those helicoptering blue balls...well, not quite, seeing as you can't
go up...yet.  Float across to the end of the Level.

6/6 Cages.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6biii. REVISITED Bongo Hills
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can now collect the last Cage of this Level with the Helicopter Power.

STAGES ONE-THREE - use 6bi.

STAGE FOUR

Continue until you reach the Flying Ring, which you should punch, using
Helicopter if required, and then swing across and to the Cage (Helicopter is
necessary).  Open this and jump back out, to the left.  Use 6bi to finish this
Stage and the rest of the Level if you need.

STAGE FIVE-SIX - use 6bi.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
